README.md, before:

# Twitter tutorials

## Introduction
The rapid escalation of the COVID-19 crisis has emphasized the need to extract real-time policy insights from big data sources to compensate for the limitations of other data sources. In this project, we provide training material to educate practitioners on how to generate indicators out of Twitter data on crucial issues associated with the COVID-19 crisis with a focus on unemployment, public sentiment, and misinformation, with practical examples focusing on in Brazil, Mexico, and Pakistan.

## Content
This repository contains the following:
- A `notebooks` folder containing the Jupyter notebooks in `ipynb` format and related files
  - `1-download-from-twitter-api.ipynb`: details how to download tweets from the Twitter API using the module `tweepy`
  - `2-machine-translation.ipynb`: shows how to use state-of-the-art translation models from the Hugging Face model hub
  - `3-sentiment-analysis.ipynb`: performs sentiment analysis on Pakistani tweets with Hedonometer
  - `4-build-unemployment-index.ipynb`: builds an unemployment index from tweets for Mexico 
  - `5-misinformation-analysis.ipynb`: quantifies misinformation in COVID-19-reltaed tweets by looking for links whose domains are listed as fake news by [Newsguard](https://www.newsguardtech.com/coronavirus-misinformation-tracking-center/)
  - `6-gender-inference`: infers gender of Brazilian Twitter users 
  - An `outputs` folder containing graphs outputted by the notebooks
- `README.md`: the present file

## Requirements
- The notebooks are written in Python 3. You therefore need a minimum knowledge of Python and famous Python modules such as `pandas` to understand these tutorials.
- There are no compulsory package requirements as all notebooks can be run on the cloud in Google Colab. To open a notebook in Google Colab, simply click on the ![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg) icon at the top of that notebook. In case you prefer to run the notebooks locally, specific package requirements are indicated at the top of each notebook.

## Motivation

### Twitter as a complementary data source

The booming use of social media platforms, such as Twitter, made individuals’ daily preoccupations and interests available to researchers. Compared to traditional public-intent data, social media measures, by design, can identify shifts in public opinion earlier and provide a more granular picture of heterogeneity in the population. It can also inform and enhance the targeting of surveys as well as bring a new lens for understanding public opinion on economic policy. On top of their informational value, these new data sources have the advantage of being easily accessible. In the case of Twitter, the data is accessible, with some download limit rate, to all users with a Developer account. World Bank staff might also request access to the [Twitter Decahose](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/enterprise/decahose-api/overview/decahose), which is a 10% random sample of all tweets ever published. 

### Massive Twitter scraping at the World Bank

In 2010, we started building a massive Twitter dataset using the Twitter Decahose. As of February 2021, this dataset contains tweets from more than 120 million geolocated users in 182 countries. Twitter users from our dataset joined Twitter in 2019 or earlier. Only users whose user-informed location contained a city name that could be geocoded with the [Google Geocoding API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/geocoding/overview) were kept. This dataset was already used for several projects, including the early detection of labor market flows ([IC2S2 2020 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxFrtUW2dYA&feature=emb_logo)). Using this data taught us valuable lessons on the challenges of working with Twitter data and the best practices to tackle them. 

### Challenges with Twitter data

One important challenge when working with Twitter data is the lack of representativeness of the Twitter population. Being on Twitter requires being literate, having a good Internet connection and an email address. This restricts the potential share of the world population with a Twitter account to a relatively richer share. This is observed in our dataset in which most represented countries with 50 or more Twitter users per 1000 inhabitants have a GDP per capita of at least 10.000 USD (value of 2019).

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/twitter_gdp_capita.png)
*Legend: Number of Twitter users per 1000 inhabitants of a country related this country's GDP per capita.*

Geographically, this results in an over-representation of North America, Europe, Northeast Asia, South America and Southeast Asia. 

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/map_total_number_users.png)
*Legend: Gross number of Twitter users from our dataset per city. Each dot represents a city in which Twitter users reside. The relative size of dots is determined by the gross number of Twitter users per city. Only city with 300.000 inhabitants or more are represented.*

In terms of share of the population using Twitter, some countries stand out with more than 5% of their population using Twitter. These countries include developed countries such as the United Kingdom (11.4%), the USA (9.5%) or Canada (6.9%) but also middle income countries,  such as Uruguay (7.6%), Argentina (6.5%) or Venezuela (6%), as well as low-populated countries (Kuwait with 9.9%, Bermuda with 9.6% or Barbados with 6.9%). The complete data on the Twitter coverage of our dataset per country can be found [here](https://github.com/worldbank/TwitterEconomicMonitoring/blob/master/visualizations/data/twitter_coverage_countries.csv).

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/bar_user_country.png)


### Demographic inference as a solution

One solution to this challenge is to combine demographic inference of Twitter users and post-stratification to build more representative samples. One solution to get user demographics is to match users with existing datasets containing individual socioeconomic information. For instance, Grinberg et al. (2019) match Twitter accounts with U.S. registered voters using their name. When such a dataset as the U.S. voting registry is not available, which is the case for most of the rest of the world, demographics, such as age, gender or whether the account belong to an organization, can be inferred based on user information (Nguyen et al., 2013; Chamberlain et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2019). In this learning material, we include one notebook on demographic inference, and more specifically gender inference, as a first step to address this challenge. 
 


## References

Dodds, P., Clark, E., Desu, S., Frank, M., Reagan, A., Williams, J., Mitchell, L., Harris, K., Kloumann, I., Bagrow, J., Megerdoomian, K., McMahon, M., Tivnan, B., & Danforth, C.. (2014). Human language reveals a universal positivity bias.

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest, & Alexander M. Rush (2020). Transformers: State-of-the-Art Natural Language Processing. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations (pp. 38–45). Association for Computational Linguistics.

Roesslein, J. (2020). Tweepy: Twitter for Python!URL: https://github.com/tweepy/tweepy.


Grinberg, N., Joseph, K., Friedland, L., Swire-Thompson, B., & Lazer, D. (2019). Fake news on Twitter during the 2016 US presidential election. Science, 363(6425), 374-378.

Nguyen, D., Gravel, R., Trieschnigg, D., & Meder, T. (2013, June). " How Old Do You Think I Am?" A Study of Language and Age in Twitter. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (Vol. 7, No. 1).

Chamberlain, B. P., Humby, C., & Deisenroth, M. P. (2017, September). Probabilistic inference of twitter users’ age based on what they follow. In Joint European Conference on Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases (pp. 191-203). Springer, Cham.

Wang, Z., Hale, S., Adelani, D. I., Grabowicz, P., Hartman, T., Flöck, F., & Jurgens, D. (2019, May). Demographic inference and representative population estimates from multilingual social media data. In The World Wide Web Conference (pp. 2056-2067).

Commit message:

Include city-level graph and reorganize references

README.md, after:

# Twitter tutorials

## Introduction
The rapid escalation of the COVID-19 crisis has emphasized the need to extract real-time policy insights from big data sources to compensate for the limitations of other data sources. In this project, we provide training material to educate practitioners on how to generate indicators out of Twitter data on crucial issues associated with the COVID-19 crisis with a focus on unemployment, public sentiment, and misinformation, with practical examples focusing on in Brazil, Mexico, and Pakistan.

## Content
This repository contains the following:
- A `notebooks` folder containing the Jupyter notebooks in `ipynb` format and related files
  - `1-download-from-twitter-api.ipynb`: details how to download tweets from the Twitter API using the module `tweepy`
  - `2-machine-translation.ipynb`: shows how to use state-of-the-art translation models from the Hugging Face model hub
  - `3-sentiment-analysis.ipynb`: performs sentiment analysis on Pakistani tweets with Hedonometer
  - `4-build-unemployment-index.ipynb`: builds an unemployment index from tweets for Mexico 
  - `5-misinformation-analysis.ipynb`: quantifies misinformation in COVID-19-reltaed tweets by looking for links whose domains are listed as fake news by [Newsguard](https://www.newsguardtech.com/coronavirus-misinformation-tracking-center/)
  - `6-gender-inference`: infers gender of Brazilian Twitter users 
  - An `outputs` folder containing graphs outputted by the notebooks
- `README.md`: the present file

## Requirements
- The notebooks are written in Python 3. You therefore need a minimum knowledge of Python and famous Python modules such as `pandas` to understand these tutorials.
- There are no compulsory package requirements as all notebooks can be run on the cloud in Google Colab. To open a notebook in Google Colab, simply click on the ![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg) icon at the top of that notebook. In case you prefer to run the notebooks locally, specific package requirements are indicated at the top of each notebook.

## Motivation

### Twitter as a complementary data source

The booming use of social media platforms, such as Twitter, made individuals’ daily preoccupations and interests available to researchers. Compared to traditional public-intent data, social media measures, by design, can identify shifts in public opinion earlier and provide a more granular picture of heterogeneity in the population. It can also inform and enhance the targeting of surveys as well as bring a new lens for understanding public opinion on economic policy. On top of their informational value, these new data sources have the advantage of being easily accessible. In the case of Twitter, the data is accessible, with some download limit rate, to all users with a Developer account. World Bank staff might also request access to the [Twitter Decahose](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/enterprise/decahose-api/overview/decahose), which is a 10% random sample of all tweets ever published. 

### Massive Twitter scraping at the World Bank

In 2010, we started building a massive Twitter dataset using the Twitter Decahose. As of February 2021, this dataset contains tweets from more than 120 million geolocated users in 182 countries. Twitter users from our dataset joined Twitter in 2019 or earlier. Only users whose user-informed location contained a city name that could be geocoded with the [Google Geocoding API](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/geocoding/overview) were kept. This dataset was already used for several projects, including the early detection of labor market flows ([IC2S2 2020 presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxFrtUW2dYA&feature=emb_logo)). Using this data taught us valuable lessons on the challenges of working with Twitter data and the best practices to tackle them. 

### Challenges with Twitter data

One important challenge when working with Twitter data is the lack of representativeness of the Twitter population. Being on Twitter requires being literate, having a good Internet connection and an email address. This restricts the potential share of the world population with a Twitter account to a relatively richer share. This is observed in our dataset in which most represented countries with 50 or more Twitter users per 1000 inhabitants have a GDP per capita of at least 10.000 USD (value of 2019).

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/twitter_gdp_capita.png)
*Legend: Number of Twitter users per 1000 inhabitants of a country related this country's GDP per capita.*

Geographically, this results in an over-representation of North and South America, Western Europe, Northeast and Southeast Asia. 

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/map_total_number_users.png)
*Legend: Gross number of Twitter users from our dataset per city. Each dot represents a city in which Twitter users reside. The relative size of dots is determined by the gross number of Twitter users per city. Only city with 300.000 inhabitants or more are represented.*

In terms of share of the population using Twitter, some countries stand out with more than 5% of their population using Twitter. These countries include developed countries such as the United Kingdom (11.4%), the USA (9.5%) or Canada (6.9%) but also middle income countries,  such as Uruguay (7.6%), Argentina (6.5%) or Venezuela (6%), as well as low-populated countries (Kuwait with 9.9%, Bermuda with 9.6% or Barbados with 6.9%). The complete data on the Twitter coverage of our dataset per country can be found [here](https://github.com/worldbank/TwitterEconomicMonitoring/blob/master/visualizations/data/twitter_coverage_countries.csv).

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/bar_user_country.png)

At the city level, London is the most represented city in terms of gross number of users with 1.6 million Twitter users, followed by New York (1.5 million) and Jakarta (1.2 million). In terms of share of the population using Twitter, the top 2 cities are Indonesian with 59% of Yogyakarta's inhabitants and 23% of Bandung's on Twitter. The complete data on the Twitter coverage of our dataset per city can be found [here](https://github.com/worldbank/TwitterEconomicMonitoring/blob/master/visualizations/data/twitter_coverage_cities.csv). 

![Illustration](visualizations/pictures/bar_user_city.png)

Now, on top of the different socio-economic and geographical characteristics of population groups on and off Twitter, Twitter data is not produced equally by Twitter users. According to Twitter, in 2011, 40% of the network’s active users would sign in just to read messages from other users. Some users may not even be humans, with between 9% and 15% of 2017 Twitter active users being bots (Varol et al., 2017).

### Demographic inference as a solution

One solution to this challenge is to combine demographic inference of Twitter users and post-stratification to build more representative samples. One way to get user demographics is to match users with existing datasets containing individual socioeconomic information. For instance, Grinberg et al. (2019) match Twitter accounts with U.S. registered voters using their name. When such a dataset as the U.S. voting registry is not available, which is the case for most of the rest of the world, demographics, such as age, gender or whether the account belong to an organization, can be inferred based on user information (Nguyen et al., 2013; Chamberlain et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2019). In this learning material, we include one notebook on demographic inference, and more specifically gender inference, as a first step to address this challenge. 
 


## References

Chamberlain, B. P., Humby, C., & Deisenroth, M. P. (2017, September). Probabilistic inference of twitter users’ age based on what they follow. In Joint European Conference on Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases (pp. 191-203). Springer, Cham.

Dodds, P., Clark, E., Desu, S., Frank, M., Reagan, A., Williams, J., Mitchell, L., Harris, K., Kloumann, I., Bagrow, J., Megerdoomian, K., McMahon, M., Tivnan, B., & Danforth, C.. (2014). Human language reveals a universal positivity bias.

Grinberg, N., Joseph, K., Friedland, L., Swire-Thompson, B., & Lazer, D. (2019). Fake news on Twitter during the 2016 US presidential election. Science, 363(6425), 374-378.

Nguyen, D., Gravel, R., Trieschnigg, D., & Meder, T. (2013, June). " How Old Do You Think I Am?" A Study of Language and Age in Twitter. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (Vol. 7, No. 1).

Roesslein, J. (2020). Tweepy: Twitter for Python!URL: https://github.com/tweepy/tweepy.

Varol, O., Ferrara, E., Davis, C., Menczer, F., & Flammini, A. (2017, May). Online human-bot interactions: Detection, estimation, and characterization. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (Vol. 11, No. 1).

Wang, Z., Hale, S., Adelani, D. I., Grabowicz, P., Hartman, T., Flöck, F., & Jurgens, D. (2019, May). Demographic inference and representative population estimates from multilingual social media data. In The World Wide Web Conference (pp. 2056-2067).

Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest, & Alexander M. Rush (2020). Transformers: State-of-the-Art Natural Language Processing. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations (pp. 38–45). Association for Computational Linguistics.
